# _Chapter 02 - Igniting our App_

## Q: What is `NPM`?
A: It is a tool used for package management and the default package manager for Node projects. `NPM is installed when NodeJS` is intalled on a machine. IT comes with a command-line interface (CLI) used to interact with the online database of NPM. This database is called the NPM Registry, and it hosts pubilc and private `package`. To add or update package, we u7se the NPM CLI to interact with this database.

### How to initlialize `npm`?
```
npm init
```
`npm init -y` can be used to skip the setup step, `npm` takes care of it and creates the `package.json` file automatically, but without configurations.

### Parcel Features:
* HMR (HOT Module Replacment) - parcel keeps track of file changes via file watcher algorithm and renders the changes in the files
* File watcher algorithm - made with C++
* Minification
* Cleaing our code
* Dev and production BUild
* super fast building algorithm
* Image optimization
* caching while development
* Compreses
* Compatible with older version of browser
* HTTPS in dev
* Port Number
* Consistent hashing algorithm
* Zero Configuration
* Automatic code spliting

### intallation commands:
- install:
```
npm install -D parcel
```
`-D` is used for development and as a development dependency

- parcel Commands : 
      - Fpr development build:
      ```
      npm parcel <entry_point>
      ```
      ```
      - for production build:
      ```
      ```
      npx parcel build <entry_point>
      ```
## Q: What is `.parcel-cache`?
A: `.parcel-cache` is used parcel(bundler) to reduce the bulding time. IT stores information about your project when parcel builds it, so that when it rebuilds, it dosen't have to re-parce and re-analyze from scratch, It's a key reason why parcel can be so fast in development mode.

## Q: What is 'npx' ?
A: `npx` is a tool used to excute the packages. It comes with the npm, when you installed npm abouve 5.2.0 version then automatically npx will installed. It is an npm package runner that can execute any package that you want from the npm registry without even installing that package.

## Q: What is difference between `dependencies` vs `devDependencies`?
A: `Dependencies` should contain library and framework is which your app is build on, needs to functon efferctively. such as Vue, React, Angular, Express, Jquery and etc.
`DevDependencies` Should contain modules/packages a developer needs during development.
such as `parcel, webpack, vite, mocha`
`these packages` are `nacessary only while you are developing your project`, not necessary on production.
to save a dependency as a devdependency on installation we need to do.
```
npm install --save-dev
```
instead of just,
```
npm install --save
```

## Q: What is `Tree Shaking`?
A: `Tree shaking` is process of removing the unwanted code that we do not use while developing the application.
In coputing, tree shaking is a dead code elimination technique that is applied when optimizing code.

## Q: What is `Hot Module Replacment`?
A: `Hot Module Replacment(HMR)` exchange, adds, or removes modules while an application is running, without a full reload. This can significantly spped up development in a few ways: Retain application state which is lost during a full reload.

## Q: What is `.gitignore`? What should we `add and not and` into it?

A: the `.gitignore file` is a text file that tells 'git which files or folders to `ignore` in a project during `commit to the repository`.
 The types of files you should consider adding to a .gitignore file are any files that do not need to get committed. for example, for security  key files and API keys should get added to the gitignore.
`package-loc-json` should `not add` into your `gitigonre` file.

the entries in this file can also follow a matching parttern.

```
* is used as a wildcard match
/ is ised to ignore pathnames relative to the .gitignore file

This is an example of what the .gitignore file could look like:

# Ignore Mac system folder
.ds_store

# Ignore all test files
*txt.

# Ignore all node modules folder
node_modules

# Ignore fiels related to API keys
.env

# Ignore SASS config files
.sass-cache
```


## Q: What is the difference between `package.json` and `package-lock.json`?
A: `package.json`:
* This file is mandatory for every project
* It contains basic information about the project
* Application name/version/scripts

`package-lock.json`:
* This file is automatically generated for those operations where npm modifies either the node_module tree or package-json.
* It is generated after an npm install
* It allows future devs & automated systems to download the same dependencies as the project.
* it also allows to go back to the past version of the dependencies without actual
‘committing the node_modules folder.
* It records the same version of the installed packages which allows to reinstall them.
Future installs will be capable of building identical description tree.

**~** or **^** in `package.json` file :
These are used with the versions of the package installed.

For example  in `package.json` file:
```
"dependencies": {
    "react": "^18.2.0",
    "react-dom": "^18.2.0"
  }
```

* **~** : `Approximately equivalent to version`, will update you to all future patch versions, without incrementing the minor version.
* **^** : `Compatible with version`, will update you to all future minor/patch versions, without incrementing the major version.

> If none of them is present, that means only the version specified in `package.json` file is used in the development.


## Q: Why should I not modify `package-lock.json`?
A: `package-lock.json` file contains the information about the dependencies and their versions used in the project. Deleting it would cause dependencies issues in the production environment. So don't modify it, It's being handled automatically by NPM.

## Q: What is `node_modules` ? Is it a good idea to push that on git?
A: `node_modules` folder like a cache for the external modules that your project depends upon. When you npm install them, they are downloaded from the web and copied into the node_modules folder and Nodejs is trained to look for them there when you import them (without a specific path).
`Don't push node_modules`in github because it contains lots of files(more than 100 MB), it will cost you memory space.


## Q: What is the `dist` folder?
A: The `/dist` folder contains the minimized version of the source code. The code present in the `/dist` folder is actually the code which is used on production web applications. Along with the minified code, the /dist folder also comprises of all the compiled modules that may or may not be used with other systems.


## Q: What is `browserslist`?
A: `Browserslist` is a tool that allows specifying which browsers should be supported in your frontend app by specifying "queries" in a config file. It's used by frameworks/libraries such as React, Angular and Vue, but it's not limited to them.
